                            RFC Style Guide

Abstract

   This document describes the fundamental and unique style conventions
   and editorial policies currently in use for the RFC Series.  It
   captures the RFC Editor's basic requirements and offers guidance
   regarding the style and structure of an RFC.  Additional guidance is
   captured on a website that reflects the experimental nature of that
   guidance and prepares it for future inclusion in the RFC Style Guide.
   This document obsoletes RFC 2223, "Instructions to RFC Authors".
   
4. Structure of an RFC

   A published RFC will largely contain the elements in the following
   list.  Some of these sections are required, as noted.  Those sections
   marked with "*" will be supplied by the RFC Editor during the
   editorial process when necessary.  Sections are allowed to contain
   nothing but subsections.  The rules for each of these elements are
   described in more detail below.

      First-page header                      * [Required]
      Title                                    [Required]
      Abstract                                 [Required]
      RFC Editor or Stream Note              * [Upon request]
      Status of This Memo                    * [Required]
      Copyright Notice                       * [Required]
      Table of Contents                      * [Required]
      Body of the Memo                         [Required]
        1.  Introduction                       [Required]
        2.  Requirements Language (RFC 2119)
        3.  ...
            MAIN BODY OF THE TEXT
        6.  ...
        7.  IANA Considerations                [Required in I-D]
        8.  Internationalization Considerations
        9.  Security Considerations            [Required]
        10.  References
        10.1.  Normative References
        10.2.  Informative References
        Appendix A.
        Appendix B.
      Acknowledgements
      Contributors
      Author's Address                         [Required]

   Within the body of the memo, the order shown above is strongly
   recommended.  Exceptions may be questioned.  Outside the body of the
   memo, the order above is required.  The section numbers above are for
   illustrative purposes; they are not intended to correspond to
   required numbering in an RFC.

   The elements preceding the body of the memo should not be numbered.
   Typically, the body of the memo will have numbered sections and the
   appendices will be labeled with letters.  Any sections that appear
   after the appendices should not be numbered or labeled (e.g., see
   "Contributors" above).

4.1.  First-Page Header

   Headers will follow the format described in "RFC Streams, Headers,
   and Boilerplates" [RFC5741] and its successors.  In addition, the
   following conventions will apply.

4.1.1.  Author/Editor

   The determination of who should be listed as an author or editor on
   an RFC is made by the stream.

   The author's name (initial followed by family name) appears on the
   first line of the heading.  Some variation, such as additional
   initials or capitalization of family name, is acceptable.  Once the
   author has selected how their name should appear, they should use
   that display consistently in all of their documents.

   The total number of authors or editors on the first page is generally
   limited to five individuals and their affiliations.  If there is a
   request for more than five authors, the stream-approving body needs
   to consider if one or two editors should have primary responsibility
   for this document, with the other individuals listed in the
   Contributors or Acknowledgements section.  There must be a direct
   correlation of authors and editors in the document header and the
   Authors' Addresses section.  These are the individuals that must sign
   off on the document during the AUTH48 process and respond to
   inquiries, such as errata.

4.1.2.  Organization

   The author's organization is indicated on the line following the
   author's name.

   For multiple authors, each author name appears on its own line,
   followed by that author's organization.  When more than one author is
   affiliated with the same organization, the organization can be
   "factored out," appearing only once following the corresponding
   Author lines.  However, such factoring is inappropriate when it would
   force an unacceptable reordering of author names.

   If an author cannot or will not provide an affiliation for any
   reason, "Independent", "Individual Contributor", "Retired", or some
   other term that appropriately describes the author's affiliation may
   be used.  Alternatively, a blank line may be included in the document
   header when no affiliation is provided.

4.1.3.  "ISSN: 2070-1721"

   The RFC Series has been assigned an International Standard Serial
   Number of 2070-1721 [ISO3297].  It will be included by the
   RFC Editor.

4.1.4.  Updates and Obsoletes

   When an RFC obsoletes or updates a previously published RFC or RFCs,
   this information is included in the document header.  For example:

      "Updates: nnnn" or "Updates: nnnn, ..., nnnn"

      "Obsoletes: nnnn" or "Obsoletes: nnnn, ... , nnnn"

   If the document updates or obsoletes more than one document, numbers
   will be listed in ascending order.

4.2.  Full Title

   The title must be centered below the rest of the heading, preceded by
   two blank lines and followed by one blank line.

   Choosing a good title for an RFC can be a challenge.  A good title
   should fairly represent the scope and purpose of the document without
   being either too general or too specific and lengthy.

   Abbreviations in a title must generally be expanded when first
   encountered (see Section 3.6 for additional guidance on
   abbreviations).

   It is often helpful to follow the expansion with the parenthesized
   abbreviation, as in the following example:

                          Encoding Rules for the
          Common Routing Encapsulation Extension Protocol (CREEP)

   The RFC Editor recommends that documents describing a particular
   company's private protocol should bear a title of the form "Foo's ...
   Protocol" (where Foo is a company name), to clearly differentiate it
   from a protocol of more general applicability.

4.3.  Abstract Section

   Every RFC must have an Abstract that provides a concise and
   comprehensive overview of the purpose and contents of the entire
   document, to give a technically knowledgeable reader a general
   overview of the function of the document.

   Composing a useful Abstract generally requires thought and care.
   Usually, an Abstract should begin with a phrase like "This memo ..."
   or "This document ..."  A satisfactory Abstract can often be
   constructed in part from material within the Introduction section,
   but an effective Abstract may be shorter, less detailed, and perhaps
   broader in scope than the Introduction.  Simply copying and pasting
   the first few paragraphs of the Introduction is allowed, but it may
   result in an Abstract that is both incomplete and redundant.  Note
   also that an Abstract is not a substitute for an Introduction; the
   RFC should be self-contained as if there were no Abstract.

   Similarly, the Abstract should be complete in itself.  It will appear
   in isolation in publication announcements and in the online index of
   RFCs.  Therefore, the Abstract must not contain citations.

4.4.  RFC Editor or Stream Notes Section

   A stream-approving body may approve the inclusion of an editorial
   note to explain anything unusual about the process that led to the
   document's publication or to note a correction.  In this case, a
   stream note section will contain such a note.

   Additionally, an RFC Editor Note section may contain a note inserted
   by the RFC Editor to highlight special circumstances surrounding
   an RFC.

4.5.  Status of This Memo Section

   The RFC Editor will supply an appropriate "Status of This Memo" as
   defined in RFC 5741 [RFC5741] and "Format for RFCs in the IAB Stream"
   [IAB-FORM].

4.6.  Copyright, Licenses, and IPR Boilerplate Section

   The full copyright and license notices are available on the IETF
   Trust Legal Provisions documents website [IETF-TRUST].

4.7.  Table of Contents Section

   A Table of Contents (TOC) is required in all RFCs.  It must be
   positioned after the Copyright Notice and before the Introduction.

4.8.  Body of the Memo

   Following the TOC is the body of the memo.

   Each RFC must include an Introduction section that (among other
   things) explains the motivation for the RFC and (if appropriate)
   describes the applicability of the document, e.g., whether it
   specifies a protocol, provides a discussion of some problem, is
   simply of interest to the Internet community, or provides a status
   report on some activity.  The body of the memo and the Abstract must
   be self-contained and separable.  This may result in some duplication
   of text between the Abstract and the Introduction; this is
   acceptable.

4.8.1.  Introduction Section

   The Introduction section should always be the first section following
   the TOC (except in the case of MIB module documents).  While
   "Introduction" is recommended, authors may choose alternate titles
   such as "Overview" or "Background".  These alternates are acceptable.

   For MIB module documents, common practice has been for "The
   Internet-Standard Management Framework" [MIB-BOILER] text to appear
   as Section 1.

4.8.2.  Requirements Language Section

   Some documents use certain capitalized words ("MUST", "SHOULD", etc.)
   to specify precise requirement levels for technical features.
   RFC 2119 [BCP14] defines a default interpretation of these
   capitalized words in IETF documents.  If this interpretation is used,
   RFC 2119 must be cited (as specified in RFC 2119) and included as a
   normative reference.  Otherwise, the correct interpretation must be
   specified in the document.

   This section must appear as part of the body of the memo (as defined
   by this document).  It must appear as part of, or subsequent to, the
   Introduction section.

   These words are considered part of the technical content of the
   document and are intended to provide guidance to implementers about
   specific technical features, generally governed by considerations of
   interoperability.  RFC 2119 says:

      Imperatives of the type defined in this memo must be used with
      care and sparingly.  In particular, they MUST only be used where
      it is actually required for interoperation or to limit behavior
      which has potential for causing harm (e.g., limiting
      retransmisssions)  For example, they must not be used to try to
      impose a particular method on implementers where the method is not
      required for interoperability.

4.8.3.  IANA Considerations Section

   For guidance on how to register IANA-related values or create new
   registries to be managed by IANA, see "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
   Considerations Section in RFCs" [BCP26].

   The RFC Editor will update text accordingly after the IANA
   assignments have been made.  It is helpful for authors to clearly
   identify where text should be updated to reflect the newly assigned
   values.  For example, the use of "TBD1", "TBD2", etc., is recommended
   in the IANA Considerations section and in the body of the memo.

   If the authors have provided values to be assigned by IANA, the
   RFC Editor will verify that the values inserted by the authors match
   those that have actually been registered on the IANA site.  When
   writing a given value, consistent use of decimal or hexadecimal is
   recommended.

   If any of the IANA-related information is not clear, the RFC Editor
   will work with IANA to send queries to the authors to ensure that
   assignments and values are properly inserted.

   The RFC Editor will remove an IANA Considerations section that says
   there are no IANA considerations (although such a section is required
   in the Internet-Draft preceding the RFC).

4.8.4.  Internationalization Considerations Section

   All RFCs that deal with internationalization issues should have a
   section describing those issues; see "IETF Policy on Character Sets
   and Languages" [BCP18], Section 6, for more information.

4.8.5.  Security Considerations Section

   All RFCs must contain a section that discusses the security
   considerations relevant to the specification; see "Guidelines for
   Writing RFC Text on Security Considerations" [BCP72] for more
   information.

   Note that additional boilerplate material for RFCs containing MIB and
   YANG modules also exists.  See "Security Guidelines for IETF MIB
   Modules" [MIB-SEC] and "yang module security considerations"
   [YANG-SEC] for details.

4.8.6.  References Section

   The reference list is solely for recording reference entries.
   Introductory text is not allowed.

   The RFC style allows the use of any of a variety of reference styles,
   as long as they are used consistently within a document.  However,
   where necessary, some reference styles have been described for use
   within the Series.  See the examples in this document.

   The RFC Editor ensures that references to other RFCs refer to the
   most current RFC available on that topic (unless provided with a
   reason not to do so).  When referring to an obsoleted document, it is
   common practice to also refer to the most recent version.

   A reference to an RFC that has been assigned an STD [RFC1311], BCP
   [RFC1818], or FYI [FYI90] sub-series number must include the
   sub-series number of the document.  Note that the FYI series was
   ended by RFC 6360.  RFCs that were published with an FYI sub-series
   number and still maintain the FYI number must include the sub-series
   number in the reference.

   Reference lists must indicate whether each reference is normative or
   informative, where normative references are essential to implementing
   or understanding the content of the RFC and informative references
   provide additional information.  More information about normative and
   informative references may be found in the IESG's statement
   "Normative and Informative References" [REFS].  When both normative
   and informative references exist, the references section should be
   split into two subsections:

      s.  References

      s.1.  Normative References

               xxx
               ...
               xxx

      s.2.  Informative References

               xxx
               ...
               xxx

   References will generally appear in alphanumeric order by citation
   tag.  Where there are only normative or informative references, no
   subsection is required; the top-level section should say "Normative
   References" or "Informative References".

   Normative references to Internet-Drafts will cause publication of the
   RFC to be suspended until the referenced draft is also ready for
   publication; the RFC Editor will then update the entry to refer to
   the RFC and publish both documents simultaneously.

4.8.6.1.  URIs in RFCs

   The use of URIs in references is acceptable, as long as the URI is
   the most stable (i.e., unlikely to change and expected to be
   continuously available) and direct reference possible.  The URI will
   be verified as valid during the RFC editorial process.

   If a dated URI (one that includes a timestamp for the page) is
   available for a referenced web page, its use is required.

   Note that URIs may not be the sole information provided for a
   reference entry.

4.8.6.2.  Referencing RFCs

   The following format is required for referencing RFCs.  Note the
   ordering for multiple authors: the format of the name of the last
   author listed is different than that of all previous authors in the
   list.

   For one author or editor:

      [RFCXXXX] Last name, First initial., Ed. (if applicable),
                "RFC Title", Sub-series number (if applicable),
                RFC number, Date of publication,
                <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc#>.

     Example:

      [RFC3080] Rose, M., "The Blocks Extensible Exchange
                Protocol Core", RFC 3080, March 2001,
                <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3080>.

   For two authors or editors:

      [RFCXXXX] Last name, First initial., Ed. (if applicable)
                and First initial. Last name, Ed. (if applicable),
                "RFC Title", Sub-series number (if applicable),
                RFC number, Date of publication,
                <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc#>.

     Example:

      [RFC6323] Renker, G. and G. Fairhurst, "Sender RTT
                Estimate Option for the Datagram Congestion
                Control Protocol (DCCP)", RFC 6323, July 2011,
                <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6323>.

   For three or more authors or editors:

      [RFCXXXX] Last name, First initial., Ed. (if applicable),
                Last name, First initial., Ed. (if applicable),
                and First initial. Last name, Ed. (if applicable),
                "RFC Title", Sub-series number (if applicable),
                RFC number, Date of publication,
                <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc#>.

     Example:

      [RFC6429] Bashyam, M., Jethanandani, M., and A. Ramaiah,
                "TCP Sender Clarification for Persist
                Condition", RFC 6429, December 2011,
                <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc6429>.

4.8.6.3.  Referencing STDs and BCPs

   Internet Standards (STDs) and Best Current Practices (BCPs) may
   consist of a single RFC or multiple RFCs.  When an STD or BCP that
   contains multiple RFCs is referenced, the reference entry should
   include ALL of the RFCs comprising that sub-series.  The authors
   should refer to specific RFC numbers as part of the text (not as
   citations) and cite the sub-series number.  Inclusion of the URI to
   the STD or BCP info page (see Section 3.2.3 of [RFC5741]) is
   recommended.  The text should appear as follows:

      See RFC 1034 [STD13].

   For an STD or BCP that contains one RFC:

      [STDXXX]  Last name, First initial., Ed. (if applicable),
                "RFC Title", Sub-series number, RFC number, Date of
                publication, <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/std#>.

     Example:

      [STD72]   Gellens, R. and J. Klensin, "Message Submission
                for Mail", STD 72, RFC 6409, November 2011,
                <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/std72>.

   For an STD or BCP that contains two or more RFCs:

      [STDXXX]  Last name, First initial., Ed. (if applicable),
                "RFC Title", Sub-series number, RFC number, Date of
                publication.

                Last name, First initial., Ed. (if applicable)
                and First initial. Last name, Ed. (if applicable),
                "RFC Title", Sub-series number, RFC number, Date of
                publication.

                <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/std#>

     Example:

      [STD13]    Mockapetris, P., "Domain names - concepts and
                 facilities", STD 13, RFC 1034, November 1987.

                 Mockapetris, P., "Domain names - implementation and
                 specification", STD 13, RFC 1035, November 1987.

                 <http://www.rfc-editor.org/info/std13>

4.8.6.4.  Referencing Internet-Drafts

   References to Internet-Drafts may only appear as informative
   references.  Given that several revisions of an I-D may be produced
   in a short time frame, references must include the posting date
   (month and year), the full Internet-Draft file name (including the
   version number), and the phrase "Work in Progress".  Authors may
   reference multiple versions of an I-D.  If the referenced I-D was
   also later published as an RFC, then that RFC must also be listed.

      [SYMBOLIC-TAG]  Last name, First initial., Ed. (if applicable)
                      and First initial. Last name, Ed. (if
                      applicable), "I-D Title", Work in Progress,
                      draft-string-NN, Month Year.

     Example:

      [RFC-STYLE] Flanagan, H. and S. Ginoza, "RFC Style Guide",
                  Work in Progress, draft-flanagan-style-01,
                  June 2013.

4.8.6.5.  Referencing Errata

   The following format is required when a reference to an erratum
   report is necessary:

      [ErrNumber]  RFC Errata, Erratum ID number, RFC number.

      [Err1912]  RFC Errata, Erratum ID 1912, RFC 2978.

4.8.6.6.  Referencing Other Standards Development Organizations (SDOs)

   The following format is suggested when referencing a document or
   standard from another SDO in which authors are listed:

      [SYMBOLIC-TAG]
              Last name, First initial. and First initial. Last name,
              "Document Title", Document reference number, Date of
              publication, <URI if available>.

      [W3C.REC-xml11]
              Bray, T., Paoli, J., Sperberg-McQueen, C., Maler, E.,
              Yergeau, F., and J.  Cowan, "Extensible Markup Language
              (XML) 1.1 (Second Edition)", W3C Recommendation
              REC-xml11-20060816, August 2006,
              <http://www.w3.org/TR/2006/REC-xml11-20060816>.

   Note that the order of authors in the list is the same as the order
   shown on the actual document and that the common, abbreviated form of
   the SDO is used.

   Alternatively, when no list of authors is available, the following
   format is recommended:

      [SYMBOLIC-TAG]  Organization, "Document Title", Document
                      reference number, Date of publication,
                      <URI if available>.

     Example:

      [IEEE802.1Q]  IEEE, "Local and Metropolitan Area
                    Networks -- Media Access Control (MAC)
                    Bridges and Virtual Bridged Local Area
                    Networks", IEEE Std 802.1Q-2011, August 2011,
                    <http://standards.ieee.org/findstds/standard/
                    802.1Q-2011.html>.

4.9.  Appendices Section

   The RFC Editor recommends placing references before the Appendices.
   Appendices should be labeled as "Appendix A.  Title", "A.1.  Title",
   "Appendix B.  Title", etc.

4.10.  Acknowledgements Section

   This optional section may be used instead of, or in addition to, a
   Contributors section.  It is often used by authors to publicly thank
   those who have provided feedback regarding a document and to note any
   documents from which text was borrowed.

4.11.  Contributors Section

   This optional section acknowledges those who have made significant
   contributions to the document.

   In a similar fashion to the Author's Address section, the RFC Editor
   does not make the determination as to who should be listed as a
   contributor to an RFC.  The determination of who should be listed as
   a contributor is made by the stream.

   The Contributors section may include brief statements about the
   nature of particular contributions ("Sam contributed Section 3"), and
   it may also include affiliations of listed contributors.  At the
   discretion of the author(s), contact addresses may also be included
   in the Contributors section, for those contributors whose knowledge
   makes them useful future contacts for information about the RFC.  The
   format of any contact information should be similar to the format of
   information in the Author's Address section.

4.12.  "Author's Address" or "Authors' Addresses" Section

   This required section gives contact information for the author(s)
   listed in the first-page header.

   Contact information must include a long-lived email address and
   optionally may include a postal address and/or telephone number.  If
   the postal address is included, it should include the country name,
   using the English short name listed by the ISO 3166 Maintenance
   Agency [ISO_OBP].  The purpose of this section is to
   (1) unambiguously define author identity (e.g., the John Smith who
   works for FooBar Systems) and (2) provide contact information for
   future readers who have questions or comments.

   The practice of munged email addresses (i.e., altering an email
   address to make it less readable to bots and web crawlers to avoid
   spam) is not appropriate in an archival document series.  Author
   contact information is provided so that readers can easily contact
   the author with questions and/or comments.  Address munging is not
   allowed in RFCs.